
Tarball contents:
REAME - this document
ligands.charge - gives unique protonation states of input ligands
  Format: one ligand protonation form per line
  SMILES input_id protonation_id mwt logp rb hba hbd charge
decoys/
  decoys.<protonation_id>.picked - contains matched decoys for each unique 
                                   ligand protonation state
    Format: ligand protomer and then 50 matched decoys
      first line: ligand SMILES input_id protonation_id
      SMILES ZINC_ID ZINC_Protonation_ID


Automated Decoy Generation Method. As in the original DUD, we
property-matched decoys to ligands using molecular weight, estimated
water-octanol partition coefficient (miLogP), rotatable bonds,
hydrogen bond acceptors, and hydrogen bond donors, plus we added net
charge. We generated all ligand protonation states in pH range 6-8
using Schrödinger’s Epik with arguments “-ph 7.0 -pht 1.0 -tp
0.20”. Molecular properties were computed using Molinspiration’s
mib. For each unique set of 6 properties, we aimed to generate 50
matched decoys. For example, a single input ligand predicted to have 2
alternate charges would get 50 decoys property-matched to each
charge. Next a pool of decoys was selected from ZINC45 using a dynamic
protocol that adapted to local chemical space by narrowing or widening
windows in seven steps around the 6 properties. The goal was to return
3000 to 9000 potential decoys that matched the ligand in the decoy’s
reference state (predicted most prevalent form at pH 7.05). In the
final decoy procedure, ECFP4 fingerprints were generated by Scitegic’s
Pipeline Pilot for ligands and potential decoys. The decoys were
sorted by their maximum Tc to any ligand and the most dissimilar 25%
were retained through this dissimilarity filter. We then de-duplicated
decoys between all ligands by sorting decoys from least to most
duplicated, and assigned each decoy to the ligand which has the least
number of decoys already assigned. This ensures unique decoys were
spread across the ligands as evenly as possible. Finally, if
available, 50 decoys were picked randomly from this de-duplicated
list.

Michael Mysinger, John Irwin, Brian Shoichet

